But I do personally think it's the best
thing I've ever done in my whole life.
Full stop. And I was like, look, you're
clearly insane. Like I'm I've never
drank alcohol. And I'm not going to
touch an illegal drug. But the biggest
interference is death. It's not my I
don't choose the time. I don't choose
like and we need to change that.
My guest today is a friend, but he's
also
most definitely the most interesting
human being I have ever encountered in
my life. He's an entrepreneur. He's an
investor, but he's also just a really
nice guy. And he's invested and started
companies in some of the most
fascinating industries from psychedelics
to space tech to artificial intelligence
to cryptocurrencies to fintech. You name
it, he's in there. In fact, he's the
single biggest investor slashd driving
force behind the whole psychedelics
industry which is currently trying to
cure mental health disorders. This is
undoubtedly the most interesting person
I know and I think this is the type of
podcast where you're going to demand a
part two because we spoke for 2 hours
and even I was left feeling that I was
only scratching the surface and that I
wanted to know more. The man I'm talking
about is Christian Anamaya. And I
genuinely believe he's going to become,
if he isn't already, one of Europe's
most important investors and
entrepreneurs. In the same way that
people praise Elon Musk for all the work
he's done in the US, I think he's
Europe's answer to Elon Musk. Without
further ado, I'm Steven Butler and this
is the D of a CEO. I hope nobody's
listening, but if you are, then please
keep this to yourself.
Christian, I I know so much about you
and the work you do. I I know your, you
know, I've observed your behavior in
person over the last, you know, six 6 to
12 months. Um, deeply deeply
fascinating. But the part of you that I
know very very little about is your
early years, your upbringing, your
childhood.
Cute child.
Really?
I I've been fascinated by
I think it was a cute child.
I've only heard slithers of that part of
your life. So could you tell me a little
bit more about
the childhood that made the man?
The the main point I'm always making
which I'm really literally happy about
is that I was a very very happy child.
Meaning I'm still a very happy person.
But I think the reason why I'm
groundedly happy is because I had a
great like how do you say um childlike
upbringing like I was growing up in a 90
people village. Um, so
Bavaria in Bavaria
in Bavaria I literally knew everybody
then there were a lot of other children
so I'm an only child but like I had a
lot of children sort of same age plus -
4 years to to grow up with um and we
were literally like in a TV series we
were out all day like in summer in
winter like it was very much like you
would picture like what is these
American TV series where they might they
own on a farm or whatever like it was
like that like sort of um
idyllic childhood
really idyllic like yeah no crime like
no risk like I was literally my mom sent
me out in the morning uh in summer
winter and I came back in the evening
since I'm like five like I was because
there was no risk for anything like
um yeah so that was sort of the very
very this was till I'm 9 and then we
moved to a town mini city town with like
2,000 people so it's nearby like kil
kilometer apart um so it was all very
very rural very which I liked. So I'm
actually was thinking about if I have
children or when I have children then
how to recreate that which I think won't
work. So, but like I think it's great to
have nature which is also by the way I
mean already jumping but like yeah
because you know that I do a lot in in
mental health work like and one thing
which is really healthy very very simple
for your mental health is nature like
there is even in Japan they prescribe
like a walk in the forest as a as a
treatment for depression. So anyway, so
I grew up in these super nice childhood.
Like I always was funnily um very
entrepreneurial. Yeah. And nobody else
is. So not in my family, not in this
village. Like so that was always
literally like with six. My mom still
has the So the first thing which I did
when I learned writing was writing
invoices like so tiny bills like oh give
me five give me five cent for for
salads. So I was actually had a very
flourishing gardening business.
So since I'm four like five
how's it going?
Sorry wrong English term. So
psychedelics.
No, I I stopped it later on when I was
12. I was like, "No, but this how I
started my first business." But my mom
still remembers that the first thing I
did with my writing skills was writing
her an invoice for salad and everything.
And then I was literally like in a
movie. It's very stereotype, but I was
selling um lemonade to neighbors.
Then I was selling lollipops in school.
I was selling literally everything. Like
I made a business out of everything. So
I I remember when I went to the my first
cinema um ever uh I think I was like
seven. Um then I was so fascinated that
people are buying for something which is
apparently also on TV. They didn't get
the difference. So then I started
charging my parents at home when they
wanted to switch on the TV because I was
pretending I was running a cinema.
So uh yeah. So every literally
everything I was doing I saw through the
lens of a business
and and when you look at your children
my parents were deeply worried in a nice
way but they were worried.
They always tend to be with with kids
that are slightly different
but they they Exactly. I Yeah. So I look
like them. So the discussion if they
maybe not my parents was early off the
table. Yeah. But like sort of from the
way how I see the world and I'm very
different.
What were the factors, the sort of macro
factors at play that were making you
into this entrepreneur at that age, but
also the entrepreneur you came to
become?
It was always there. Like I
sometimes I think for myself, I think
because my parents were never around,
they create this big sort of void of
freedom and independence, which I
thought made this connection in my mind
that if I was going to get something, it
came from my behavior. I'm thinking
about those factors
that, you know, freedom. You said, you
know, I've heard you say that your
parents were very keen for you just to
be happy.
Yeah, exactly. like they were always
like I can be whatever I want. So, but
it was not that I don't I don't know if
that automatically leads to
entrepreneurship. It could also have led
to me being an artist or whatever. Like
I don't think there is a connection
between freedom. It's actually the
freedom to be whatever you want. And
then I think maybe you maybe it's
genetic. Maybe it's like I don't know
like u I this is the the point meaning
it was always there. There is not there
is not a moment I can think of where I
sort of
changed but it was literally since I can
think since I'm four five six like very
very early it was always there to make a
business out of everything in a nice way
hopefully
that coupled with some kind of innate
curiosity which is you Peter the said
when he did did a quote about you in
sifted he said that curiosity is one of
your real sort of
Yeah but I don't I just thinking if that
was that early visible I loved school
which I think I was a very nerdy child
as well. So I yeah I um I loved actually
I did love school for and even meaning
now more talking than later high school
for the one reason and even if I look
back now I really miss it a bit because
it was the only time in life where you
do something for the pure reason of
learning something with no material sort
of meaning I turned that then also in a
business because I started my my this
was my first real business was when I
started a tutoring business when I was
14. Um and then I um
what was that business? Tell me.
Tutoring like like giving sort of other
kids. Yeah. Because I was extremely good
in school. So I was always the best one
in my school but I was practically
always the best one in like the Bavaria
or whatever. Like top 10. Yeah. And I
was always I like to explain stuff. So
So I think I think that still helps me
now because it's part of fundraising to
explain complex sort of things to
people. Anyway, so I liked I I did like
to explain stuff and I did like to um
and I I was good in the matter. So So I
started tutoring. Then there was this
tiny thing I I think a bit that because
the teachers very much liked me because
I was always like uh the good child like
everybody who came to me automatically
became a little bit better because
teachers were treating these children
more nicer because they were coming to
me. So it became this sort of um
positive virtual circle that more and
more parents were like oh god we have to
send our children to Christian because
it really works and I think
and what were you doing for these kids?
Well, tutoring like how
teaching them the same thing the same
thing because they were these were the
the ones who didn't perform well. How
you call it English? Tutoring, right?
Yeah. Yeah. Too. And they were your
peers. They were the same age.
Same age or younger? No. Or younger.
Like it was mainly like a little bit
younger. Like one or two years, but not
a lot younger.
So anyway, and then I was like after
half a year I was so like full. Like I
think I worked like
10 15 hours a week uh practically all
the time. like it was tutoring like and
then I was like how do I really scaled
it up and it sounds now very um I don't
know very banal yeah but for me this was
like the first time I really thought
about business like in an
entrepreneurial way how do you scale it
up and practically I realized I have the
brand because parents want to send their
children to me um so I was employing
other uh other pupils my same age or
even a little bit older and said you can
teach under my brand and you get half of
it and I get half of it. So 50% margin
and I started employing and I
continuously till my final grade had
like
10 people like always employed.
Yeah. Who were tutoring other children.
Yeah. So it was a very lucrative
business. Um meaning for for a child
like but
it's crazy. Absolutely crazy.
And then so you get to 16, you get to 18
in that period of your life. I hear that
in Bavaria they have this like public
service you've got to do for a year.
Yeah. I just was thinking like how
compliant do I have to be because then
it's all I think what is it called when
it's out of time is back like nobody
nobody can claw it back like because
what happened is like I was always
extremely libertarian
and in we had back then it changed in
Germany but we had back then like the
Israelis have still you had to go to the
military for a year and I think in
generally this is wrong not because I'm
against the military but I think you can
employ people this is a job like people
would should want to be a soldier or
should want to be something else. But I
I think as a government meaning I in
general you think the less government
the better. So I I was thinking
hopefully this comes across charm but
because I was thinking all the time how
to avoid it. Unfortunately I was not
daring enough back then. There were
tricks to do it like you could have had
said you're sort of mentally ill or
whatever like I was not brave enough to
go on with that. So I I decided to do um
you can you could also opt to do civil
servant. I s civil servant like to go to
a hospital or whatever. So and I tried
to be really nice. So I picked a job
which I knew is it didn't really require
me. It was more like okay you had to put
these children who didn't want to go to
the military. You could say you're
pacifist. You had to put them somewhere.
It was not that somebody was dependent
on me. So I was sitting in that hospital
and my only job was to bring stuff from
A to B like whatever. So then I made an
I remember that I made um um how do you
say a proposal that if we reorganize
everything in the hospital I could do my
job in an hour and then go home. Yeah.
So this was I was 18 and then they were
like okay this is crazy like it's not
really really uh popular. Um, so and
then I made a decision that I'm not
really going to show up anymore. Um and
the only way to do that was to um to get
always like doctors to give me like um
letter
a letter and so now comes but the
important point because like till that
time I um I was extremely like I loved
learning so I was actually thinking I'm
going to if if I would have gone and I
think this is sometimes how crazy stuff
happens and then it changes sort of the
whole course of your whole life
practically. So I think if if I would
have gone from high school to
university, I I would would have just
been in that sort of mode like of
learning being extremely good. So I
guess I would have just went on with
what I was doing like meaning producing
great academic outcome so to say. So
then came this one year which I was
completely bored. So I I got these
doctors um writing me letters that I
didn't need to show up but in return I
started managing money for them because
I was already speculating on the stock
market since I was like 15 16 and I was
not bad in it. So I became friends with
all of these doctors even in the
hospital I was working and they were all
like well we help you if you help us
because this was the early days of the
or not you know like this was 1998
1999 like this was the stock market boom
whatever. So everybody wanted to be in
it. So this was sort of my trade-off for
these letters.
Um and so and I can't be I'm I'm easily
bored. So I always want to do something.
So practically because so I was not the
type of person who was okay I have a
free year now and I'm going just
partying like I was like okay I have a
free year now I'm going to do more
tutoring. Yeah. And I'm going to do
managing money for these doctors. Yeah.
And sort of that completely switched my
how do you say course like so I wasn't
this I actually wrote the book yeah and
tried to sell that this didn't work out
but I did a lot of entrepreneurial stuff
just because I had time. Yeah. And then
when I practically went to uni then a
year later I was sort of mentally not
anymore in that sort of learning world.
I was in the okay I want to be an
entrepreneur world. And then I was and
this sort of when I met we met uh
actually two guys who finally were my
tutors in a scholarship I had had during
high school already like for sounds
awkward but for highly gifted children.
Yeah. So I was sort of in summer
summer school that was the university
this where I knew them from. We rem kind
of and they were telling me about this
idea and it just sounded great and they
were like my tutors in terms of I was
like okay these guys are the pinnacle of
biotech. Um and then I I was the one
let's do a company together and u we did
and this worked out really well and then
I dropped out of uni. So this how I
think this how was this sort of I think
without this one year in hospital or
sort of one year in hospital not in
hospital. Yeah. I would have stayed in a
completely different path.
I hear you talk a lot about you believe
in like the serendipity
and spirituality which almost seems
surprising because you're such like a
scientific person whereas you do you do
believe that things happen at the right
time.
Totally totally actually I'm actually
very extreme with that. So I everything
which has happening literally everything
this conversation today
well this conversation happens because
we planned it yeah but like the fact for
example that we met originally yeah why
mutual friend whatever so I'm always
everything which is happening to me
which I didn't actively say hey I need
to have a meeting like which is not in
my usual
rhythm yeah I always think a it's
happening for a reason and also it's
happening for a good reason even bad
stuff I believe even this power of
positive thinking but like more like
people always then say ah this means
like if you wake up in the morning
you're if you feel great it's going to
be a great day I think it's more deeper
I believe in this what there is this
great book law of attraction like
whatever you sort of think and rather
how you think not just meaning sort of
the essence what you think not like the
detail partly but more the essence and
if you expect sort of good stuff to
happen you're sort of attracting that
yeah
you think there's a do you think there's
a spiritual force that attracts it or do
you your intention moves you in that
direction.
So, look, I'm very pragmatic, meaning I
I mean, first of all, I dare to talk
about this stuff because I'm very also
scientific. So, I'm like, look, nobody
will think I'm crazy. Yeah. Uh, maybe a
bit. No, no, I'm joking. Like, so, but
the other thing is like there are
multiple explanations and I don't really
care about the explanation. You can have
a very spiritual explanation. Yeah. It's
the force of the universe. Yeah. And
then you can have a very pragmatic
explanation that if you continuously
expect positive stuff, then you look out
for that stuff and then it's more like a
a numbers game or like a Yeah. But and I
don't care like it it works tremendously
well for me since I'm 16. Yeah. And I
had these I had some very crazy things
which go borderline which you could
explain like sort of with statistics or
whatever. Yeah. Um, so maybe too crazy
on the show for that, but but like but
there were some there were some things
where I tend to believe in the spiritual
explanation. Yeah, because they were
Yeah, I think harder to explain or you
can always explain it with statistic
like you know what I mean like but I
don't care like it does work
tremendously well for me.
Okay, so going back to this company you
founded with these two your two sort of
like university mentors. This company
went on to be really successful. I think
you said it's worth probably about 15
billion at last check market cap
today but like I sold very early but
very early I sold when we went public
for a billion so it was it was one it
was actually pun
do you regret selling
well there's there's a short and long
answer no because like the short answer
is no because like a that money was the
basis for the rest yeah b also people
always mix up market cap and share price
so meaning I sold at the lower share
price that it's today but the share
price is not 15x X because they did
capital increases, there was dilutive
stuff like so, so anyway, long story, it
was an amazing start. Yeah. So, um,
yeah, it was actually the quickest
biotech IPO I think in Germany ever. Uh,
we IPOed 3 years, three and a half years
later after foundation
and for a billion. So, it was was
everything. Um, and it was sort of I
dropped out of university before, but it
like was the sort of sort of
catalyst
catalyst I would say. Yeah. So, I I
don't regret that. And uh and since then
sort of I'm investing and being an
entrepreneur. I'm somewhat in between. I
would say I actually sorry when I'm
jumping I had this one story again by
the way which is completely you can
serendipitous
serendipitous and like even a little bit
more. So I remember it exactly. I was 14
years old and I was uh with my best
friends back then in Munich which is far
away. I mean for me this was like going
going to the big street like um and we
so we spent the weekend with family
members. I mean I really I remember
remember every single detail of the
weekend like what we did and like where
what and we went to a bookstore which is
for Germans who listen hook and dub is a
back then was like sort of like a I
don't know iconic bookstore 100 years
old in Munich I think it's still even
there although books are dying out um
smaller um so it's in the prime location
of Munich and so I remember it so I go
into that bookstore and there was these
whole how I say promot ocean
wall. Yeah. With just one book
which uh which which is uh the American
Think and Grow Rich from Napoleon Hill.
And do you know like when in movies like
the 14-year-old boy goes in and then the
light is coming down and then the
Hallelujah is coming. Sort of that
meaning there was no music, there was no
light. I was like that's it. Think and
grow rich. I need to have that book. So
I bought the book and it was practically
my first kind of I mean Napoleon Hill is
not as spiritual as some others. Yeah.
But like that was my journey into that
world of let's say spiritual infused
success
books.
How do you define spiritual?
Well there is like Napoleon Hill is sort
of and I love it by the way because
they're all so old like they're all out
of the 1920s. So they they don't have
the zeitgeist which I think in terms of
success is rather negative like so it's
sort of like raw American
horny principles.
Yes. Uh exactly like um and Napoleon
Hill has this why he was a great entry
into that thing because his view was if
you read many of the book starts that he
says he got commissioned by um Andrew
Carnegie who was the steel magnet to
find out and do interviews which I think
by the way you are doing in a certain
way. Yeah. With successful people um and
find out if there are common traits uh
you say traits yeah common denominators
which make them successful. And he did
that with all the famous people of his
time from Andrew Carnegie himself to a
lot of other famous people. And then he
made that into the book and he's
actually saying that
the question he doesn't answer the
question why these uh rules so to say
work. He's more a neutral observer. And
then the next one is actually there's a
guy called Dr. Joseph Murphy who wrote
similar books but more like with the
spiritual undertone why these rules
work. same rules sort of more
explanation why they work which went
more into the religious world and then
you have all the other book and law of
attraction is nothing else which is sort
of the modern version and the key which
is a sort of a simplified version of an
anyway simplified version yeah of this
stuff like but it's at the end it's
always the same rules some which think
it's they are god-given some which say
look again this is statistics whatever
but they do work I I deeply believe and
these things do
Yeah. Um which is
like visualization the the way you
think.
It's visualization is that the the main
thing I think is two things is
visualization. So I meditate in the
morning and the evening but it's not
real meditation. It's more like
visualization. So I ex I always have a
plan for the week for the months for the
year for my life. Yeah. And everything
kind of did come true so far. So I'm
always thinking what could I add like a
wish list. Yeah. And now again you can
say if you add something and then you
you focused on it it might come true
because you focused on it. There could
be a very banal explanation that it's
relentless execution and nothing magic
and again I don't care. It's like I'm
like well like yeah it does work. So and
the visual I think it's the two things.
It's visualization and it's also these
that you have for example I'm not it
sounds very crazy but I'm trying to not
have negative thoughts. So, and then
there is a number of negative thoughts
you're going to have anyway because you
have to deal with stuff when you run a
business. But I, for example, I have
never watched a horror movie since 20
years at least because it gives me
negativity. So I and I I go the extra
mile. So I told for example friends when
they are too much complaining meaning
I'm and the first one friends can call
for a problem but then I'm like let's go
through the problem. That's the
solution. That's what you're going to
do. But if they would repeatedly because
some people want to not solve the
problem. They want to repeat the
problem. Then I'm like, you can't call
me again on that topic because no
negativity. Yeah. So I really have a
rule. Yeah. So no negative movies. I
never watch a movie which has no a happy
ending. So I have people check or I
check. Yeah. Before does it have a happy
ending? No bad endings. Nothing which
makes me sad. Nothing which makes me
negative. because I'm not I'm not
allowed in my own religious philosophy
to have negative thoughts and feelings.
Feelings are even more important than
thoughts because I think they are the
underlying driver. So, and it sounds now
maybe cheesy and simplified, but I think
if you this is what I'm doing since I'm
14 and if you train yourself not and
again you will always have an sort of
amount because sometimes hard things
happen. Yeah. And I don't want to
pretend as if my life was easy because I
did have very hard times in business.
But even in those times I was lying in
my bed literally and was like okay this
is not fun what's happening right now
but it must happen for a very very
positive reason because this is how your
world works and funnily it always the
worst things in my life turned into the
best ones. Yeah. So because I again and
you can say now maybe somebody would say
well because he was persistent and he
didn't fall. Okay then this is the
explanation. Maybe there's a deeper one.
I don't again I don't care. I can always
come to but I would tell everybody the
two things emotionally is like don't
have negative thoughts. Just focus on
positive sort of thoughts. Visualize
these are the key things. Be happy. so
many things that you know
and dare to be happy because most people
are again don't allow themselves to be
happy and even think it's a little bit
negative. So there's this whole thing
happening on Instagram that I want to
come back to this point about this
movies and cuz I think it's very much
linked to your whole thing about alcohol
and stuff. This this happiness
equilibrium you talk about, but just
quickly on that point of being really
positive and unapologetically positive
and saying, "Listen, don't call me with
the same problem twice. Don't interrupt
my positivity." There's this whole
movement happening on Instagram at the
moment where there's such a thing as
being toxic positive. It's called
[__] Like no. And I like getting on
this point like because that's one thing
I think I meaning again maybe so I have
to so maybe I'm sitting there I'm
already so old that there is another
generation I'm thinking about the other
generation and because I'm reading a lot
like very old stuff and you find soc
complaining about the youth. So maybe
that's a recurring thing. Yeah. But I
really think part part of the millennial
culture of these victimization and
always like blah is this is so wrong.
This is so wrong. Yeah. So to pretake a
question because then normally we say
well you saying that because you're
rich, you're white. Yeah. So I was like
okay this is maybe a point. Let's go
back because I didn't talk a lot about
it but I'm happy it's already like
I grew up in these 90 people village.
Yeah. I'm gay. I'm actually happily gay,
but I look meaning I know I'm I'm gay
since I'm 11ish round about. So, and I
was looking at sort of that world I was
growing up in and I was like that's not
going to resonate here. Yeah. So,
seriously like and that's very very uh
very uh positive phrased. Yeah. So, in
my school people were saying let's beat
up gay people and I was like that's not
going to end well. So, but I didn't
think that is anything bad by the way. I
didn't even think these people were sort
of wrong and obviously they were wrong
but I was like they don't know better.
I'm not like ah these are bad people. I
was just like be pragmatic. Sometimes
life is not fair. Sometimes life is not
nice but you can decide if you react on
it. That's one of the other points I
really believe in that you have these
tiny millisecond in life on everything.
If somebody is sort of rude to you, if
somebody says something very bad and you
can decide if you hurt or not. It's your
decision by the way. Nothing's gonna
hurt you if you decide you're not going
to be hurt. Yeah. So, and I was like,
they don't know better and I can't by
the way. And by the way, gay is not what
defines me. So, I was like, well, then
I'm I'm not gay for a while till I'm out
of here. Yeah. I can't because there are
other things which define me like
friends like you know like you know what
I mean? Like it's not that I reduced
myself to this one thing and was like
and now I need to shout it out to the
world and in return would have get
beaten up. Like I was like just like
just don't do it like but don't blame
the others. Yeah. And then move away
somewhere. Also I I mean this whole like
don't try to change everybody else. Work
on yourself and like and your
environment what you can change. Like I
could have started like oh my god my
life is miserable and I'm growing up in
this village and blah blah blah. And
actually talk about serendipity. I'm I'm
honestly I'm but again I'm trained to
see the positive stuff. If I look back,
if I would have been straight, I
wouldn't sit here for a very simple
reason because I would have dated every
single free minute I would have had like
Yeah. and would have enjoyed that. Yeah.
So, but I couldn't. So, so what did I
do? I was working my ass off and
learning all the time. So, and if I
hadn't had the grades I had, I would
have ended the first money I had, I
would have never met these guys with
whom I started a biotech company. Yeah.
and nothing would have happened. I would
have been an ordinary straight boy. Most
likely smart. Yeah. But not uber smart
because sometimes it's smart and hard
work to get grades. Yeah. It's not all
falls and fun. So, so, so the
practically the if you say like the the
ad, how do you say adversary or the
negative thing being gain a very hostile
environment and not talking about it and
focusing on other stuff completely made
my life. Yeah. In a very positive way. I
I I would I mean Yeah. I I'm so happy
that this was the case. Yeah. And again
and everybody should look everybody has
um limitations and negative stuff but
you should look at it and say they are
there for a very positive reason and
something amazing will come out of it. I
just need to have this continuous sort
of expectation
and optimism and and you have a real
sense of like personal responsibility
that comes across like you'll take
responsibility for yourself and your
actions
but who else but it's like who else
should woman or you know someone else.
We see that with the vaccine. Give the
government a little bit of uh
responsibility and it goes totally
wrong. You don't want anybody be
responsible for you than yourself.
So going to this point about the horror
films which I thought was somewhat
connected to what I've heard about your
rule with alcohol and cigarettes. You I
hear you've never drunk before ever.
You've never had a drink.
Exactly. So there were two reasons for
it and they were connected. The one,
again, by the way, the one reason was
because I was actually thinking like if
I'm going to be drunk 14, 15, I'm going
to spill out I'm gay and then it's over.
So, so my social life of being the
darling of the school that day.
Yeah. Exactly. No. And I was also like I
was very nerdy, so teachers loved me,
but I was also how you say school
speaker, speaker of the school,
whatever. So, I was socially had a great
life. So, I was like, "No, let's not
risk that." Like, no alcohol, you could
say the wrong stuff. Yeah. So that was
the one thing and the other thing was
that I always sort of because you do
that as a child but in general and I
think it's a good thing like if you have
one weakness in my case the weakness for
the time was being gay the other you
build on your strengths which was like
okay I think I'm kind of smart and also
like smart in terms of learning smart I
learned very easy I always had the best
grades yeah so I was I was sort of
focusing on that so I was also like okay
alcohol could take that away from me uh
because I thought it makes me dumb which
by the way was yeah in a lot of amounts
I still wouldn't drink but so these were
my childish reasons not to drink and
then I just decided okay I think I have
the perfect equilibrium like uh being
always happy having very good grades
everything was perfect so I was like I'm
not going to touch any drug ever
and you still haven't touched alcohol
cigarettes
no so I have not I haven't drank alcohol
I haven't smoked a cigarette ever I
haven't smoked a joint ever I have not
take cocaine I haven't anything like
no comment
I did I did actually drink alco the
first time when I was sorry echo sorry
right sorry coffee uh the first time
when I was 28
so you avoided coffee as well
I was even avoiding coffee and tea yeah
because it was a drug it was almost like
the the very religious people so I would
have been a good Mormon um so um but
then coffee I started drinking when I
was 28
there's something crazy here where you
think okay so the guy that doesn't want
to upset his equilibrium goes on to be
the biggest psychedelics investor in the
world which is all about
I think there was a very good ground
because what happened is so I had u a
discussion or a dinner. It wasn't a
discussion. It was like a dinner
discussion like we were set somebody sat
us next to each other with funnily the
joke and said, "Oh, you the guy was a
very or is a very famous um drug
researcher like he's the David Nut of
Germany like the a drug uh yeah adviser
to the government and yeah a
neuroscientist and somebody said, "Oh,
you should two should sit next to each
other because maybe you can loosen
Christian up a bit and he could drink a
little bit of alcohol." So, so this is
how I met Rhino on his name again.
Ex. No, but like exactly like again by
but everybody else would have said I
remember that I was like oh my god
that's awesome like and everybody else
would have said well I again and every
single thing happening I see it's good
for me. Yeah. So um so anyway so we had
this discussion and I think the short
version is he was like look everything
you think is bad is bad like so don't
touch it. Exactly. He actually showed me
these and uh whoever is watching and
maybe I don't know if you can put it
into the the like Yeah. So like this
this famous very famous but it's so um
to the point meaning he's David Nut in
the UK wrote a whole book about the
misperception of drugs but this one like
he had this one chart which David not
made and Rhina pulled it pulled it off
in the internet where you can see sort
of the harm um of each drug.
Yeah. So how much harm there was this
harm scale and Bradley on number one is
alcohol even in a in a holistic approach
alcohol is the worst
and then closely followed by heroin
which by the way the media used a little
bit against David Nut which was highly
unfair because the headline I remember I
think in the sun or whatever was like oh
guy says heroin is better than alcohol.
No the thing is like they're both very
very bad like but alcohol is as well. We
have these
and this is the chart that says the harm
to you and the harm to others
both. It's it's it's in one. So yeah, a
chart that shows the harm that these
different drugs have on you and others
and alcohol is the worst.
Exactly. Always the worst, but closely
followed by heroine. Yeah. And closely
followed by um crystal math or whatever.
Like everything is bad. And I really
like if there is one positive outcome of
people watching that don't do it. But
don't do alcohol, don't do heroin, don't
do crystal mask, don't nothing. No,
there is no by the way and I'm the most
again pragmatic person because what I
was talking with him was like is there
any drug there could be a drug where you
say oh it has a little bit of downside
but it has enormous upside and then you
can think for yourself again you are
responsible I don't think the government
should be responsible to think for
myself is there any upside of me taking
that risk because if I go in a car I
came to you in a car so I took a risk of
dying meaning very low But there was a
risk. But I was it's worth to sit with
Stephen and do their podcast. Like no,
but everything we do in life, by the
way, people should look at it's like a
risk return. Yeah. So maybe somebody
says, "Oh, if I smoke a joint once in a
while, it makes me so relaxed." Anyway,
but you should be aware of the risks.
And I think people aren't, especially
not with alcohol. Yeah. And if you then
still decide actively, I'm going to
enjoy my glass of wine, then I think
it's great, but you should know it
anyway. So, but at the end of that scale
it said um
um probably at the very end is
mushrooms, magic mushrooms and before
the very end is the second sort of
easiest or second lowest risk is is LSD.
Practically the psychedelic group of uh
of drug and he was like Christian like I
can't tell you what my host told me to
tell you that you should try alcohol.
Don't meaning I can also tell you're not
going to die but like don't do it. Yeah.
uh but you should do actually magic
mushrooms. And I was like, "Look, you're
clearly insane. Like I'm I've never
drank alcohol and I'm not going to touch
an illegal drug." Yeah. And he was very
very uh
persuasive because he was like, "Look,
first of all, you do biotech. You
started your career in biotech. Like I
send you um I send you all the research
I did or I do." But also, which was very
cool, hindsight. I didn't even value it
back then. He was like, I did my PhD
with famous Hoffman who invented LSD.
So, so Ret was replucked into like the
old guard of psychedelic luminaries. And
he was like, I sent you all what what he
did like read it because there were all
these studies. It's not like an crazy
idea meaning again actually magic
mushrooms or the ingredient pseudocybin
was used as an approved medical drug in
the 50s by sandals actually very uh at
least in Germany famous um um brand um
for for depression he was like look it
was medical it has no risk as you can
see I tell you as in the older studies
at least read it and again I'm very
curious I was like well send me I'm so
that was actually against serendipity
and so and now comes the biggest
serendipity because like so for one year
I was just like not meaning it's not
that I had it on my mind every day I was
it was there like I read a little bit
here and by the way again I know a
there's even a book about that but which
says what some people believe is destiny
is just like if you aware of a theme
yeah it's a little bit like when I tell
you don't think of the blue elephant or
the white whatever you think of it like
so there is this one book I can't
remember the name which again would be
fine for me like because again it works
was like if you are aware of a thing of
a theme then it pops up everywhere.
Yeah. So over a year there were not a
lot because it was completely not in the
public domain but like there were once
here and there I was like okay read
something again whatever and then more
or less exactly one year later I was
with my best friends who
actually have a steak in a tie so
they're happy with my best friends in
the Caribbean. Uh, so disclaimer, it was
a place u where where it's legal. Um,
and they had magic mushrooms and they
had it like it looked like mushrooms.
Like this was good because I I'm so
hypocchondric and frightened of
everything. So I would never have taken
anything which didn't look like
mushrooms. So these were dried
mushrooms. Like so I was like see from
the ground.
Yeah. I was like, "Okay, that looks
real." Like and they were like and I
trust them. They're my best friends.
Yeah. So big shout out to Landon and
Julian. Yeah. So I trust them anyway.
They were like, "Look, we grew it
ourselves." So like safe. We know what
we're doing. Yeah. Um and I was like
actually calling Rhina and
the guy you'd met in Germany.
Yes. So I'm not mentioning his last name
because I don't know if he he works
still in a very famous job. Uh and I he
was actually saying the sentence, look,
as your doctor friend do it. It's the
best place, best people. You know it's
real.
Setting everything is perfect. do it.
So, so I took all my courage I had. Um,
I was really like and it's it sounds now
I can't say how nervous I was in sort of
both anxious and positive like it was
like really not maybe people say, "Oh,
he's talking about magic all the time.
It must have been an easy decision." It
was not. Yeah. For days and I was like,
"Okay, let's do it." I still know
exactly the point on the beach. Yeah. Uh
because we're going there every Easter
and somewhere I'm going to put a big
magic mushroom statue here. Uh I really
will. I really will. I know the guys who
own the island. So I Yeah, they already
know of it. Actually, the guy who owns
the island is now a shareholder at Tai
as well. So everybody is literally
everybody. So um so I did it and it was
the single most meaningful thing. Full
stop. And by the way, it confirmed
everything I just said. So because what
a lot of people report is that um that
um you
it's a very spiritual experience and in
that case it was not just a spiritual
experience but it really confirmed 100%
my fuel in life which is by the way
interesting because if we look now at
people because a lot of people ask me
especially successful people they're
like oh I've read somebody takes it and
then he's want to be a farmer in Brazil.
by the way, which was my biggest fear.
My biggest fear was like, I'm going to
come out of that and I'm going to change
my whole life because I realize that I
don't know, I want to do something else.
Hindsight, I tell everybody that look at
me and look at others. We have both. We
have people like me who come out are
very even more happy. But it for me it
was a very big confirmation of what I'm
doing. Yeah. Um because um Yeah. I don't
mean not because like it was a
confirmation like okay you see the world
in the right way everything what you do
how you do you can work on it so I got a
lot of ideas how to make it better but
like sort of the message was you're on
the right path so some other people come
out and the message is look you have to
do something completely what is why is
it different it's actually the same what
it does I think one sort of how you say
one description of of psychedelics is in
general they
you realize or you um you recognize
yourself and all your sort of positive
and all your dreams all your trauma and
everybody has a bit of trauma must not
be a real so everything and then and
some people and then I was always
hindsight I can say now I was right like
I or I was right I I I was good in it I
was always living a very honest life to
myself again doesn't mean that I say hey
I decided for example not to tell
anybody I'm gay. But that's not from my
point of view, this was not a lie
because it's my decision. But it was not
a lie to myself. Yeah. It was an active
decision to just make my life
suppressing it. It was not suppressing
it. I was just like pragmatically. Yeah.
By the way, it was also very simple.
There was also nobody to date. I was
very simple like no. Exactly. Risk risk
return. There was no upside because
there was nobody who would have
appreciated that. Yeah. And if there
would have been a hot guy and I was like
he's gay, I'm gay. I was like, hey,
immediately like but there was no
upside. but a lot of downside. Anyway,
but what I'm saying is like I always
lived a very honest life um to myself.
Yeah. Again, this doesn't mean you have
to shout everything out and this was
confirmed. So other people who don't
live an honest life to themsel and lie
to themsel and maybe tell themselves
that they are happy with XY Z, they
might realize on a magic motion trip
that they're not like they need and this
is the other people who change. Yeah.
But so it's very dependent on Yeah. But
it was just one aspect of so many
positive aspects and then sort of I
immediately after the trip had sort of
the idea okay this should be actually
legal. I was actually not even the first
impetus was not that I should make a
company because I was very sure people
must work on that stuff because it's so
powerful and when I then found out
actually it took me two years I was
looking around like that there was none
then we did it ourselves.
Just to go back to that point though you
you you categorize that moment your
first trip as the single most meaningful
experience of your life.
Yeah. today full stop nothing comes
close
and maybe I would add plus the follow on
trips over the last year so it's not
just this one trip I would say as well
but I would I would I would summarize my
psychedelic experience and I still like
try to do a trip once or twice a year in
a country where it's legal yeah I would
summarize as the most meaningful sort of
holistic experience I've had in my life
full yeah for sure like
you do this trip um on the beach with
your friends, you you think to yourself,
you know, this must be legal. Fast
forward, you get a call from one of your
friends called Mike.
No, it's way No, it's way crazier. It's
way crazier. Again, super serendipity.
So, fast forward for 2 years, I was very
very carefully looking around and
actually not telling a lot of people
about it, which was wrong. And if I
would have gone on like that,
I wouldn't sit here again. Meaning, at
least not now. I would sit here. maybe
but like not talking about mushrooms or
my psychedelics. So for two years I was
kind of extremely holding back. So I
told my closest friends actually the
ones who knew me very well
saw that or positive like my parents
were like hey you became an even nicer
child. We have an amazing relationship
but it became even better. So my mom was
very quickly saying something happened
in your holiday. Yeah. Yeah. So, so um
so, so the ones who knew me well, but
like I didn't shout it out and I was
actually very very
careful and shy because it's like
technically Yeah. And back then, by the
way, let's not forget like we're talking
about it also now so easily because all
the books came out, we have the success
like compasses listed like
now is completely different than so
anyway. So for two years I was very like
lowkey. Yeah. And then I had be and
again this is like maybe the biggest
financial serendipity uh or like message
of the universe if you want to see it
like that because for two years I was
sort of like just telling friends very
close friends and then I had u one other
trip within a holiday trip. The main
message on that trip was Christian this
makes you so happy you have to talk to
other people about this don't be shy
just good thing will come out things
will come out if you talk about it so I
had a real mission so I got this real
mission on that trip to sort of be open
about it and then actually from that
holiday I was flying literally the week
after I met a very close friend and
business partner of mine Mike Novagrat
um who's big in finance and like huge
huge.
Yeah. So, but he's he's not what I want
to say he's not the guy who would talk
about mushrooms normally and I wouldn't
have had but he was my test case because
I had the mission. The mission was don't
be afraid talk about me because it's
going to be good for you and the world.
So, I met Mike and he literally Mike is
always like that. What's up? Because I
think I do cool stuff like from other
stuff. So, a lot of friends are always
like, "Hey, what's new? What's up? What
you investing in?" I was like, "Mike,
you won't believe it. I just had a
mushroom trip and this was amazing and I
want to talk tell you about it and he
was like this wa mushroom like I I
remember Mike said the the sentence like
he hasn't talked about it hadn't back
then for like 20 years because
especially in the US a lot of people
it's like a college thing like
party
was like 20 years never heard about it
again since college so I told him all of
my experience on that trip um and in
general or so and he was like very
interested did. Yeah. And so the next
day, literally the next day, my phone
rings. Mike is on it and actually he
said it. Yeah. He said, "Look,
Christian, this is the weirdest
coincidence." So since 20 years or I
haven't talked about psychedelics for 20
years. Yesterday you were in my office
talking about nothing else than
psychedelics. And this morning, my
sister or sister, his sister called him.
So my sister called me and she's on Bali
with these crazy couple from London who
told her they want to start a company
which is working on bringing magic
mushrooms back in the legal realm and
they need somebody who's financing them
and nobody wants to touch it. And I was
like this is this is such a coincidence.
You in London they in London like Yeah.
And these are George and Katya the
founders of of Compass. Yeah. And I was
like connect me immediately. And I
remember this was January and then we
met when I was back and they were back
from Bali in February um 201.
Yeah. And I they tell if we talk about
like within the meeting I was like okay
we going we're going to do that
together. That's that's what I've waited
for since 2 years. And again if I hadn't
taken the decision to openly talk about
it um I wouldn't have told Mike. I
wouldn't have met George and Katya. We
wouldn't sit here at least not sit here
talking about this one. And the magic
mushrooms were the thing that told you
to talk about it.
That's right.
And you you end up being, you know, the
single biggest investor in the space, a
space which is now really sort of main
becoming more mainstream at an alarming
rate. A sort of a category that's
exploded from a financial perspective.
Um, and you've you've you've co-ounded
and invested in two the two biggest sort
of companies in this area and Compass
Pathways.
Exactly. So practically I co-founded
both in compass I was more the seed
investor because it was George's and
Katya's idea and I added actually a very
close friend of mine Lars as the third
co-founder and I was the seed investor
but sort of I was there
even before the company existed we were
sitting in my in my living room and
planning it and then when I realized how
positive or it was actually easier is
the wrong word but it was sort of I had
I had expected more
hurdles. Yeah. And it's maybe sadly
actually the time which is helping us
because there are so many people
suffering and it becomes sort of also
financially sometimes life is very the
world functions very pragmatic like in
the in the moment something becomes a
big crisis also financially. Yeah. The
yeah regulator. So anyway whatever it
was it was the right time. So, Compass
quickly actually got FDA
um fast track designation which was a
big thing stuff like that. So, and then
I actually realized oh there are more
psychedelics out there than meaning
everybody's always almost using magic
mushrooms and psychedelics as the same
but like we have the headline
psychedelics a group of drugs and
psilocybin the active ingredient in
magic mushrooms is one of them. So there
are more of them from MDMA to LSD,
ketamine, ibukane, whatever. And and
compass wanted always to focus on um on
psilocybin. So I was like, okay, then
I'm starting a Thai as sort of a
platform where we actually bring on more
more of these compounds to explore them
for mental health issues.
Of all the compounds in a Thai, and I
know there's a lot of them, right? I
think you've got over 13 compounds,
different psychedelic compounds within a
tie. Um, we've talked a lot about magic
mushrooms and that the active compound
in magic mushrooms for anybody that
doesn't know is psilocybin, which is
what compass pathway does. Of all the
others, and I know this is like I've
heard you say before, this is like
choosing your favorite child. Which ones
of the psychedelic compounds is
incredibly compelling to you and really
stands out is being able to have a
really significant impact?
That's really hard to say. I really I
really mean it because like it really
meaning because they all have all all
compounds we work on have a
sort of reason to exist or positive like
have a have a place in treating mental
health issues hopefully.
Tell me about ibain then.
Yeah. So so then now what I want is the
question is what is your
what does somebody sees as the biggest
problem? or name me the problem you
think is the worst and then I tell you
sort of which drug is the best like kind
of so so so I think I gain is this is is
interesting because also
because I gain goes against addiction
and there is actually almost nothing
else which works for addiction so
addiction we talk about here severe
addiction like especially to opioids and
heroin is sort of I don't know if you
can say it on English really [__] up
like it's like that's one of the really
severe mental stuff like where most
people have um how do you call it like
um relapse relapse like and then it's
also one of these sort of things if you
look at I don't know families and
friends where somebody is addicted sort
of it's very like it's like cancer in in
in in the social environment so it's
sort of
it's it's but or I would even say any
mental health is like it's always
affecting others as well but I think
addiction sort of stands out in a
certain way and I gain is the only drug
we know which potentially I always have
to say with all these drugs potentially
because we are about to prove it once
and for all with scientific terms or
with scientific framework FDA sort of
compliant but I gain the potential to
really cure addiction with one trip.
Yeah. And that would be a massive game
changer for the whole opioid crisis. Uh
but even alcohol addiction like it's not
just opio like Yeah. And Yeah. you know,
you're trying to you're trying to make
people's lives better, right? You're
trying to get them. It almost seems
like, you know, because you've you've
been gifted enough to be happy your
whole life. You you're doing a lot to
make sure other people can be happy on
one end. But the other thing that you're
doing, which also kind of blew my mind
when I met you, is trying to extend
life. You know, you've got Elon who's
like trying to save life on Earth, but
also take us to a new one. And it seems
like, you know, Apiron, your investment
company is trying to make the life we
live more joyous and fulfilled, but also
trying to extend it. and the work you're
doing with life longevity I actually
find
maybe even more
bonkers. Like when I first heard about
psychedelics I was like really and then
I spent 6 months 9 months learning and I
was like oh my god like I get it but
life longevity for me is like really we
can really we can really extend our
lives and you you've got companies which
are working on that challenge. So tell
me about life longevity. Is it possible?
I well okay let's so so so let's phrase
it correctly like because even I if I
want to sort of some say something very
um pokey I'm like oh we're going to live
forever yeah that's not going to happen
for an accident reason yes you could say
maybe we live forever if we really
upload our brain to our computer but
that not that I think that's completely
impossible but I think then we're not
human anymore that's a different
discussion like so but I would say as
long as we stay fairly human, meaning
having a body,
having sort of the human setup we have.
Yeah. There will always be an end. Let's
start there because the worst case if
you live hundreds of years, you're going
to have an accident somewhere and
somebody blows you up. You have a By the
way, it's going to as a side note, I
think it's going to change once we get
older and older. It's going to change
the way how we look at risk because I
already start avoiding crazy stuff
because I'm like it's not worth it.
Again, risk return. Like I have this one
colleague I always try to convince he's
50 and he drives a motorbike and I'm
like you shouldn't do it. Like the sort
of statistical risk is so big of driving
a motorbike. And his answer is well
because he's still thinking his his life
expectancy is 70. He's like, "Well, but
I'm exchanging 20 years if it happens
against my biggest passion, and this is
a trade-off worth it." And I was like,
"Well, a it's already stupid. But if you
if you It's okay if this is your
opinion, 20 years against the risk of
losing it. But I tell you like it's not
20. You already if you're 50, I'm going
to get you up or we going to get you up
with longevity science to maybe 90 or
100 by the way, in a good way. So would
you exchange 50?" And then suddenly you
see okay then he starts thinking because
so and now think it a little bit further
like if you say hey our natural life
experience someone will be 200 maybe we
stop doing stuff we're doing now because
it could sort of yeah so but you know
back to your question like longevity
never means immortality because again as
long as we stay kind of human because
there's an accident risk uh by the way I
also believe spiritually again that we
don't want to live forever I I think
part of being human again as long as we
stay that and we can talk about that as
well because it's another thing I'm
thinking a lot maybe we don't stay human
in our current form but as long so I
think to part of being human is having
an end
because that makes everything we do so I
just don't want it now like I want to
have more of it but I think the the sort
of the li that there is a time limit on
being human is actually which makes us
thrive yeah and which makes us
everything special
everything special. So I don't think I
want to take that away. I just want to
extend
the joy. Yeah.
Then doesn't it just become relative
again then? So if you live to 150 but
wait so so what I really believe what we
get in the next
maybe like
30 20 to 30. It's come it's I think it's
going to come way quicker than people
think is that we're going to get life
expectancy up
to to a time or to a to a to a to a size
to a magnitude where we want to die. And
I think it's even like this will be a
range and some people might already say
100 I had it all. I had enough
birthdays, enough Christmases and so
some people want to maybe live to 300.
But I think we going to give people that
optionality sooner than we think. And
then I think dying will be like this is
my vision like it's a celebration. I
would someone say look guys I had it
all. I love you love life but I really
think I'm ready for whatever comes.
Maybe comes nothing. I don't know but
like I have an expectation but like yeah
but whatever it is I'm going to finish
it now. Throw a big party. Say goodbye
to everybody and then go out on my own
terms on my own time. I think that's
going to be sooner than we think.
You whispered that I have an
expectation.
Well, I think there is another life.
Like I think it's a continuous uh cycle.
But that's not a spiritual question like
but like I I very much believe we have
an eternal soul. Yeah. I don't even
think there is a number. But first of
all I again I come back which gives me a
lot of thing. I don't believe in the
Christian thing that we have anything to
prove. That's already starts because it
means you're not worthy and you have to
prove yourself worthy. It's like you I
think everybody should be deeply happy
and do exactly what he he or she feels
is the right thing to do. No, by the
way, again, this is I think what people
realize on the on the psychedelics is
like they I always like to say like
which is maybe a good way to describe a
psychedelic trip like since we're young
and again maybe my parents were like
better than other parents in avoiding
that but since we're baby people start
telling us what we should do what we
should not do how we should be how we
should think how we should and I always
say like there is your soul somewhere
like what form of your soul is like but
there is somewhere the level of you you
and again the problem is when we have
this discussion what I want to avoid why
I'm sometimes so blurry is that if you
start using religious terms then some
people might be set off yeah or pushed
away because if I use the word soul or
god then uh a Christian person might
have a different reaction than a Muslim
person than a um than a Hindu person
yeah interestingly a lot of people who
went through psychedelics have sort of
the same description because so so
anyways it's by trying to use as neutral
worlds as possible. So let's call it
soul or inner you or whatever and then
you have all these sort of external
sort of um garbage almost what other
people put on you. Yeah. And and I think
some people literally lose sight
what they really are and want. So and I
actually was always very good. So what I
realized under my trip that sort of so
what happens under a trip sort of all
this garbage is taken away. So you
really look at you
but you and your real naked sort of
form like form I mean like you recognize
yourself all your fears all your wishes
all your whatever. Yeah. And
interestingly it was for me it was still
a great experience but it was not so
different. So which told me
okay I did a good job before
psychedelics to sort of be again true to
myself and I I don't believe in what
what some faith say that that oh you
have to be worthy because you are worthy
yeah and you are great you just should
live the life as sort of it is fit for
you and again this is for everybody it's
different but you need to know it yeah
so so but to so this is my belief and
then so and so so there is no okay I
have it's not like a computer game where
you have to reach a level and do certain
things and then come to the next one. I
just think it's like an endless positive
sort of cycle of experiences. Yeah. So,
and I'm definitely know that somewhere
and I'm going to want to go to to the
next level is the wrong word to the next
experience. Yeah. Um but for now I want
to actually extend this one.
A lot of people don't get to live and
this is what I was thinking is like this
this idea that people will get to a
point in their life where they say you
know what I've had enough. This has been
great. I would you do you genuinely
believe you'll get to a point where
maybe 150 whatever where you think
I think some it's going to happen like I
maybe it's very late meaning I hope but
again I think this is the ultimate
meaning I'm already pissed about the
government interfering in in my stuff in
any way but the biggest interference is
death it's not my I don't choose the
time I don't choose like and we need to
change that so I think the biggest sort
of liberty everybody has will be
choosing his or her own Yes, but you'll
always be curious. The world will always
be changing. There'll always be
go on like a long time.
I I I I I'm trying to understand if I if
I genuinely believe that Christian will
ever get to a point where he's bored
because you're such a curious but it's
great if that is the case. I really
don't know like meaning but I'm just
saying I believe like again I think
there is a moment everybody will come to
that. Maybe it's very very great. Like
I'm working on it. Like
And you don't think death is a n is a
especially that age is like a natural
thing? I hear you talking about it as a
as a bug or as a disease or something.
Well, that that's I would say definitely
aging is a disease. Something is wrong.
So something is I know how the
20-year-old Christian looked and was and
felt. And by the way, my DNA is the same
like it was when I was born, like it was
when I was 20, like it's now, but
something of the same DNA. It's like a
little bit we know how the house it's
the construction plan of the house is
the same. And some
the sort of minions who who translate
the construction plan into the building.
Yeah. Change it and not to the better
from age 20 on like I get gray hair,
whatever. Like so but we know still it
is there like the original source of
information is there our DNA. So we just
need to find out it is super simplified
what changes the translation of our DNA
into mistakes and into what we call
aging. Yeah that's a very simplified
view but it shows you that it's not so
natural. Yeah because it's not that your
DNA is if if it would be natural maybe
your DNA would change. You would say we
can't change that. Yeah. But it's not
like your DNA is the same till you die.
Like so we just need to make sure that
the translation happens like when you
were 20. So by the way I deeply believe
not just that we can slow down and stop
aging, we can reverse it
because again I know how Steven many you
are still obviously at your prime. Yeah,
but I know how Christian in his primes
looked like and yeah, you know what I
mean?
Yeah.
And we can bring it back. So
some some Yeah. going to say some
animals live for a couple of days
though. So I I take like I look at take
an evolutionary perspective on this and
think like you know there's some like
flies that live for like 4 days but it's
enough time.
Maybe we are there at the moment to
escape the evolutionary velocity. Maybe
that's the pinnacle where we sort of
start becoming and I know because I
don't mean it like in a placeic way. I
think we meant to be like gods in our
own way. Yeah. And we start now to go to
the sort of source and construction of
life ourselves. And I think that's an
enormously curious thing. And like Yeah.
Maybe that's what we meant to be. I'm
rather on the positive side. This is not
blasphemy or whatever, but this is like
what God set us up for, so to say. By
the way, every single religion, it's a
very fun. Nobody ever I don't say I
love, by the way, uh and you know, we
can't say today that there is a big
thing coming out about religion and and
science of religion, but I always love
that I'm always was finally drawn to the
mystical side and the religious side.
And aside of what we discussed on let's
what I call spiritual side I was always
always very interested in the history of
religions. Um and interestingly a one
sad actually
happy and sad observation is that in the
very core all religions are the same.
They all preach the same good stuff. Be
nice be nice to others and then once
they become an organization the [__]
starts. Yeah. So and uh and also one
what most religions have just going
through but mo yeah literally most
religions have the big ones is that they
at the very beginning say that we are a
part and a mirror or is the English term
that we are an image of God
and we don't talk about that because now
everybody's like oh if you if you want
to live forever well what a lot of
people again if you want to defy aging
and there are a lot of people oh you
want to play god yeah this is sort of
the
the rebuttals the real and I was like
but maybe that's what we meant to be
because if I go to the Bible it says we
are the image of God so maybe we are
meant to play God because that's what we
are in in a philosophical way so I don't
think it's not e ethically at all I
think it's the ultimate actually
challenge we have to solve yeah um
the other rebuttal I would I thought the
first time I heard about the the
possibility of extending life was that
you know we'd have a really aging
population where we'd all So, it's
interesting you talk about reversing
aging, but we'd all be 170 and slightly
like, you know, slow.
It doesn't make any It doesn't make
medically or sense we won't be 150 and
super old. It doesn't make sense. You
can't extend lifespan that much without
rejuvenation. It comes at this. Thanks,
God. And nobody wants to be like because
by the way, that's what most people fear
though. Why they It's interesting how
many people reject the idea of living
very long. I don't know if living very
long but the one of the very bal reasons
is that they automatically think okay if
Christian would succeed in making us
live till 150 they take okay I know a
90-year-old granny from of mine and
she's not in good shape and now they add
another 60 years and they're like no
that's not what I want but that's exact
but that's not what's going to happen in
the moment we can push life expectancy
way further than 90 it it goes hand
inhand with rejuvenation
And then more people want it.
And what time frame do you expect?
I think we're going to see
step really really tangible steps
forward the next 20 years. Yeah. And
then let's say 20 to 40 later by the way
which is not that far. Yeah. And um and
also um the um this going to change
society meaning everything. And
interestingly, every politician I talk
to thinks like, well, that's far away.
And I was like, no, it's not it's not
that so far away than you think. And
like this going to affect us sooner and
we need to talk about it about about
social systems, about anything. Yeah. Uh
this going to be one of the massive
black but I not a negative way by the
way. I think it's going to be good, but
like I'm an eternal optimist. Like um
but like in a it will be a massive
change for the world.
Let me drink this delicious drink.
What's it called?
I put it like in a commercial in the We
should like leave that in. It's like
hopefully it's better. H
fuel. Yeah.
Yeah.
Human fuel.
Okay. It's a very good name.
Yeah, it's a very good name.
Who came up with that name?
Julian Han.
Oh yeah.
Um, so switching because in fact the
topic the topics of conversation we've
discussed are super interesting but
personally the things that I find most
fascinating about you are you're just
like ridiculous ridiculous work ethic
and I've talked to some of your friends.
I spoke to Aaron. I spoke to people
around you just to confirm what I
thought and the intensity and the amount
you work I think is just like
staggering. I think I'm really
hardworking. I've seen you in action
around the clock over the weekend. The
fact that we're doing this on a
Saturday. I don't normally record the
podcast and say
it's a hobby. It's like it's like having
fun. It's not like work, but okay. I
know it. Yeah.
My point is about, you know, in culture,
people talk about this term work life
balance. And I think you've kind of
responded to it there.
Very easy. There shouldn't be a work
life balance. There should just be one
continuous hobby. That's my view on it.
People should love what they do in a
way. Obviously, you do different things
and I love more things. So, but like
there I I always said since I'm 16 or
actually 14 since I have my tutoring, if
I would call it work life balance then I
have a shitty life because it's just
work but my work is my life and I love
it and it's integrated and most of my
friends I work with and like even like
friends who didn't this is how I came to
the movie business because just like I
had friends who were actors and were in
a movie business and then I was like
maybe we should work together maybe we
should finance a movie like it's like
Yeah, I don't want to see it as a
separation.
Separation.
Quick one. Starting from the minute the
lockdown is lifted, we're going to start
bringing in some of our subscribers to
watch how this podcast is produced
behind the scenes. Means you get to meet
the guests, meet myself, and see how we
put all of this together. If you want
that to be you, all you've got to do hit
the subscribe button. Let's talk about
more personal things. So, relationships.
How does someone who works as hard as
you find any I'm I'm presuming you value
what relationships can bring you? Well,
complicated topic is work in progress
like welcome to the podcast the diary.
Oh no it's like uh no that that's work
in progress. So that's like uh because
obviously like I'm so much in love with
my work that um that it's always it's
hard I think for another person although
I think I can try to be very uplifting
because I would try say the same what I
told you is like I would tell every
partner like you have to find you can't
expect from me to get give you meaning
you need to give yourself meaning and
then we can be happy together yeah but I
this is unfortunately not how a lot of
people work like so it's very easy that
sort
I have a quote on Instagram, my best
performing quote ever. It says, um, "If
we're dating, I want to be your second
priority. I want your first priority to
be you, your passions, your future. If
we're happy alone, we'll be happier
together."
Yeah, that's so Yeah. And I'm happy
alone, by the way.
Yeah. I
I'm also like an introvert extrovert, so
people think I'm very extrovert, and I
can be and I want to be like can I like
to host parties and dinners and do
things like that, but then I want to be
alone actually a lot. So, do you value
and tell me the value of a relationship
in your view of like a really good
committed relationship? Do you value it?
That's a complicated, right? So, um
because because if I say no, it sounds
brutal and I don't No, no. And I don't
mean it like I I I think it's more the
answer is more complicated. So
I build myself that I that I'm sort of
very like independently. So so I value
relationships
a lot. So that's the real answer. But I
I'm not in the concept that one should
stand out. So I rather have groups. So I
I believe that or I believe like I do
have like 10 but not one like 10 very
very close friends who most of them I
have since a very long time. I actually
extremely value relations but I'm not
saying okay there is this one relation
in my life which will completely stand
out from the rest which is maybe a um a
complicated thing for relationship. I do
think though this will change once you
get children. Yeah. So which I want. So
that's sort of the Yeah. Um and by the
way, I also do think people change like
and and I don't think the core of you
changes and like the core but like you
can make adjustments. So I know for
example that when I want children or
once I have children that I have to make
adjustments because I just want children
if they have the same happy childhood
that I had. So I want to be either no
dad or a great dad. Yeah. So and then I
know I need to make adjustments. So, but
then it's worth it and then it's my
active decision to take it.
How is it? You are the busiest person I
know. I was just thinking then I was
thinking, is this the busiest person I
know? You're probably You're the busiest
person I know. I'd say
have you struggled to have romantic
relationships because of that busyness?
I feel like in like a interrogation of
curt.
What did you think was going to happen
here?
This is what it's this is these are the
things no one talks about, right? And I
sit here single struggling.
So I'm like I'll ask Christian cuz he's
way busier and I'm struggling. So is
there any hope for Steve?
Yeah, totally. Like there's hope for all
of us. Be positive.
It's funny. It's this feels like a bit
more of an uncomfortable topic for you
for some reason.
No, it's just very private. It's not
uncomfortable. I will tell you my fuse
in private easier because
um
there's 100,000 people watching.
Exactly. 100,000 people now. It's
getting like cringey. Um, no. It it is
definitely a problem
full stop. Like Yeah.
And you realize that you're going to
have to adjust at some point if I want
to do that. Yeah.
Yeah.
And then you always say like, okay, you
do that. The issue is like what I
thinking a lot. How do you know when to
adjust like in terms of because you
would say romantically you would say you
adjust when the right one comes. How do
you know that the right one comes if you
don't have time to figure out to right?
There is these a little bit and I
haven't figured that fully out. You're
someone looking at the past 40 years of
your life that does whatever he wants to
do and isn't actually very good at
adjusting unwillingly. You you've never
been good in your life story at doing
something unwillingly.
You go the way Christian wants to go and
I just
I wonder I'm like when will what will be
the catalyst? You said kids may be there
but what will be the catalyst that makes
Christian
adjust?
But maybe it's a romantic thing you
really like love at first sight. I mean
again the good thing is that I I deeply
believe that makes me very calm that
coming back to what we had that this I I
deeply believe it's going to come at the
right time and I know that I'm sort of
enough open for it because it's the same
like with business ideas or the same
with other stuff in my life. Again, if
you're open open heart open mind you're
going to see it when it comes. So it's
not it's a little bit like with anything
else like you don't have negative
thoughts. Don't think oh I need it now
like yeah so it comes when it comes like
because everything in my life came at
the right time why not this one so I'm
very that's how I see it
I guess at the macro level
and by the way if in the moment things
came I can just say now business stuff
but like again business is my like when
psychedelics came and then the business
meaning that's sort of very a big part
of my time allocation over the last oh
like four or five years was in the into
the secondary business. I made space for
it. Yeah. So, I'm always like it's not
again when things comes you realize that
you you realize the message and then you
make space for it.
But there's a chance you said that you
might be obstructing it from coming and
happening because you're so preoccupied
with
No, I'm thinking about that. Then my
conclusion is then usually that or
because again like I'm because romance
is maybe but it's not maybe it's maybe
not like finding a good company maybe
that sounds now very um very
non-romantic but I don't mean it's
romantic because I also think finding
company is very romantic or very very uh
emotional. Yeah. uh if I look for
example at the psychedelic business I
think that but I do actively again it's
not that I'm ignoring so what I said
before my my my philosophy of not having
negative thoughts doesn't mean that you
cannot analyze sort of stuff and sort of
look on the risky side so I do think
about it is my life how I lead it maybe
preventing
to have sort of the one and only
romantic um experience Uh my conclusion
is then mostly that I'm like okay no
because like it will come at the right
time and then you're going to realize it
and then you're going to make space like
you make like I make space for
everything else.
It's so funny cuz you because you're
such an internal optimist I almost can't
get you to
but that's how it work. Bad things
happen to me as well. Bad things are
there but my mind twists it around or
twists like this is what I'm really
training since I'm 14 since I bought the
book in Munich. like every throw it to
me throw it to me a negative thing
and I'm I'm maybe a little bit puzzled
for a second or for example even this is
how it works like things even if things
in our portfolio don't go well I'm like
a little bit like shaken for a moment
and I'm like where's the good thing and
how can I turn that in my mind how can I
see the upside yeah
it's fascinating because I was yeah I'm
trying to get you to you know the reason
why I started this podcast is because
sometimes I want to highlight that for
all the great things people see that you
know there'll be people watching you
thinking I would want to be have all
these companies and manage you two
billion of assets and all these things
but there's always a there's always some
kind of down not downside but sacrifice
we could say that's happening and I'm
trying to get out where that sacrifice
is and the problem is you are happy so
and you're pursuing yourself so it's
hard to identify a sacrifice when you're
that optimistic
no exact I know what you mean I just try
also as a message not to see it like I I
think people shouldn't see it because
that's the negative story about success.
The negative story of success is that
people see people and say, "Oh, I want
to be like them. Yeah, I would like to
have the wealth. I would like to have XY
Z." Then they can't immediately have it
because by the way, it's a long process
and you need to work harder. But and
then they tell you, "Oh, they must have
gone through a lot of sacrifice." Yeah.
And then this is a little bit what calms
them down or they they they have a lot
of bad stuff like coming with it. I
think that's the wrong way to look at
for both sides. Like I think the right
way to look at it like do I really want
that? Is this really what makes me
happy? Yeah.
And then it's by the way not that easy
to meaning everybody would say like oh
yeah it's like simplified money makes me
happy but then again do you makes it
happy what comes with it but I don't
want to call it a sacrifice because I
wouldn't do it if I would have to
sacrifice stuff in order to get money
because it's not about money anyway by
the way money from a certain moment on
is not really
the driving force
there there's there is there isn't
meaning there is great research it's not
money it's like that for from
practically zero to x Money gives you
happiness because it makes your life
easier. So, but then someone you're not
going to spend it because somewhere it
becomes a figure. Yeah. And then it's
about do you love what you do? Yeah. So,
latest then. Yeah. But like so so I
don't people should see not this you
can't see I don't know wealth or
anything separated from the the process
how you got there. Yeah. And then it's
not about saying oh the process was hard
and sacrifice. It's like is the whole
process what I love doing then you
should throw you sort of or is it
something else what I love and then you
should not though envy other people
because that makes you miserable as
well.
You should always embrace what the
problem is people often don't know what
they really want. Yeah. And that again
psychedelics give you like but like in
the moment you embrace what you really
want and maybe like like a housewife
maybe really loves it. It's not
something where she should say, "Oh, I'm
just a housewife and somebody else is a
big entrepreneur." Maybe that's what she
really wants in this life. She maybe
wants to have children, take care of
them and take care of him in exactly the
way. But it's about knowing that
actively, not letting other people
put you in that position
or let circumstances put you in that
position, but like actively know
yourself. Is that what makes you happy?
Yeah, I've written about this at length
in the book. this idea that like um but
obviously the huge force in our lives at
the moment which whispers in our ear
that we want to be something else is
like social media and so society say
you've got to be a doctor your mom might
say or Instagram will say you've got to
be a billionaire and really you just
want to be an artist that dances in
Croatia you know what I mean
exactly embrace it but again you need to
know it like by the way I think as much
as I love tech that's one of the other
topics which which really like sort of
how you say keep me away at yeah but
keep me away at night is
something in the world we live in or
actually something in the world we are
building because we we reconstructing
the world in any form and people I think
have no no real glimpse yet how crazy
this will be. Yeah, we going now. People
think we we're in like a 20 year of tech
boom, which is true on the one side, but
if you're really honest, and there's
this famous quote which I love to use
from Peter Teal who said we wanted
flying cars and we got 140 characters on
Twitter. Yeah. Which says practically if
you look at the last 20 years, yes, we
had a tech boom, but more or less I'm
simplifying. Yeah. The what changed is
the distribution of goods. Amazon. Now
we're not shopping anymore. We're
getting it delivered, but it's still the
same goods. Yeah.
Um and um social media, it changed.
Communication changed, but we didn't go
to the fabric
of
society, industry, and ourselves. So now
we starting going to reformulate and
rechange the fabric of ourselves
longevity. We're gonna really make not
just five years again maybe with which
change everything we change and this is
all interdependent then in a moment we
change the fabric of our body or then we
change the fabric of society because
society is very much linked to an 80
year life expectancy yeah flying cars
are now really coming literally we have
fly yeah we have flying cars now soon
yeah we're going to go to Mars somewhere
and it's going to happen maybe 20 maybe
it's going to happen so the world is
going to change like we've never seen it
before so And I love it. Yeah. And you
love it. And maybe even the people who
watch that love it because otherwise
they maybe wouldn't watch it. But like
the majority of people doesn't. Yeah. So
and I think that's one of the underlying
reasons which makes the society more and
more depressive or mental health because
like I think there is this enormous
fear. Um, and people often have like I
think it's a another word for gut
feeling like you have you can't really
explain it what makes you nervous but it
makes you nervous and I think that's
what happening. So I think the sort of
the world as a whole except of some
eternal optimists and some techies.
Yeah. Are like yeah maybe I like a
single piece. I like my iPhone. I like
that. But as an entirety that makes me
deeply uncomfortable.
The race of change around.
Exactly. Yeah. So and even if they don't
know it, the bus driver maybe can't
fully explain how a self-driving bus
will work, but somewhere he feels that
in 10 years it's not going to be his job
anymore. Yeah. And I think that creates
a lot of risk because the last time that
happened that was when we changed from
the agricultural society to the um to
the industrial society. Yeah. And you
can say now we changed from the
industrial society to let's call it data
society.
We need a word for it but we're changing
and changing in a massive way. So and
then so there are a lot of parallels
of the time between 1875
and 1920 the people were there was these
elite technically who said everything is
possible you had um it was I think it
was in 1870 but I don't know something
when when the Eiffel Tower was built
there was these uh what is it called
world exhibition like and people were
like oh my god when there was Jules Vern
when it was also around the time and
hopefully I spell him right in English
like he wrote all these books Yeah. Like
the sci-fi books. Yeah. So the world was
already there once. Unfortunately, we
had then two world wars.
Yeah. And you can look at a lot of
reasons why World War I and two happened
and there is a lot of different layers
of um of of reasons. But I believe that
the main reason is these sort of
disenfranchisement
of the agricultural society who were
deeply panicky like what's happening to
the world because the world the farmer
Yeah. in the 19th century knew was
disappearing in in front of his eyes.
Yeah. And it's exactly happening the
same again. So
couldn't there could there not be
another reason linked to that why people
are be becoming depressed in the
technological evolution? Because you
know at the start of this podcast you
said about the importance of nature and
I've read studies about you know
prisoners who face who face nature
versus a brick wall are 30% less likely
to be depressed. And the the sort of
very human prehistoric origin of the
human being is one that's in nature.
It's one that's in a tribe, has
meaningful connections, and the
technological revolution is ridding, you
know, I now live between four white
walls alone in a big gray city. Could
that also not be part of the reason why
people are we're getting less human than
ever? And in fact, what I what I like,
you know, when I read about some of the
social reasons why people are getting
more depressed, it's because we're
getting further and further away from
being human.
This is maybe a little bit more
philosophical, but like if you look at
like the things that help with mental
health, some typically it's it's
meaningful connection. It's nature. It's
good diet. No more junk.
And these are all things that humans did
10,000 years ago. It's like we have to
go back to find ourselves again.
Or we have to find our human place in a
world which is changing. So yes. So I I
I do I do think a lot how can we stay
human
in a world which is changing that
crazily as it does
which wants robots. It's like this world
now would appreciate if I was a robot
more productive.
Now I think we can adjust. And by the
way, and I know it's like and I'm saying
that with all the disclaimers, it's not
legal right now and I'm always coming
back to that. But I do think somewhere
psychedelics will be
will be the medication for that because
it keeps us in a certain way very human
but it at the same time makes us very
adaptive on our environment. Um so
that's so I give you is more or less the
same what you said. So how I see what do
humans need to be happy? I think it's
three things. It's
some form of faith and I explain in a
second. So, it's faith, it's purpose,
and it's love. It's super cheesy what
I'm saying now, but like these are the
three things which I I think make us
as a as as as a the combination of these
three things make make us happy. Then I
think let's go go through it. faith
means any form of um higher meaning or
the other way around. I think being
atheist or believing literally in a
materialistic world where if you die
you're dead and then you rot. Yeah.
Makes people very unhappy. This is not a
again meaning I made I think the case
that I believe in in more but like let's
it's not even a case. It's just like
saying like factually I think people
need that. We need this why every
society ever developed a religion. Like
I think we need it. Why? Because we're
terrorized of dying. We don't admit it.
I admit it. I don't want to age. Aging
sucks. Dying sucks. And even worse, by
the way, dying of people I love sucks.
So, and we don't talk about it. We
completely pushed it away from us. Yeah.
And I believe religion always gave
people that sort of calmness or a little
bit of a calmness that as death is not
the end. You want to see people again,
people you love, whatever. So, and I
think it's important because otherwise
you have this permanent terror of death
in your head and you might not have been
it but you have. Second point is
purpose. What I say with a bus driver,
people need a purpose. Yeah. and they
need to know why they wake up in the
morning and um and um what they're
doing. So having said that uh in front
of our very eyes at the moment like the
these these things are dissolving that
the purposes so we need to find new ones
and the most important is we need love
and in a cheesy way must not be a
one-on-one relationship but it could be
could be a one-on-one relationship could
be a family could be a close friend
could be a community. Yeah. So love on
various levels. So and
actually the bad thing is if you look at
where the world is going at the moment
all these three things are dissolved. So
face is on a super decline. Yeah.
Um then purpose is on decline because we
changing the world and most people don't
find their purpose immediately there.
And then unfortunately also communities
are on decline. traditional family
structures, but also communities.
Meaning, if I remember if I grew up, I
had like what do you call it in English?
When you go to like a theater group and
I had 10 groups, like it was all like it
was it was the sort of the pinnacle of a
community. We were so and it was great.
Yeah. And I don't think if you have that
anymore in that way. Yeah. Or at least
this sort of vanishing. Yeah.
Statistically, there's a study in the US
which says um 15 years ago, people would
respond to the question, how many people
can you turn to in time of crisis? The
medium answer was three. It's now zero.
It's crazy. Like I had 10 when I was
young. And psychedelics are giving you
that all of that. They're giving you
faith,
spirituality. They're giving you purpose
because you you re you realize that the
purpose lies within you and you can
reinvent yourself. And they're giving
you love because you realize the value
of connections, whatever.
I read tons of things and this is a bit
of a sideway, but I read a great
No, it's really great. Like
what is great?
I love it. Like
he's talking about the hu he's drinking.
It's good. I will send you a big box of
There's different flavors. This one's
berry. So, we'll send you this flavor as
well. But it's also really good for you.
It's the reason I'm in the best shape of
my life. I read something really
interesting, which again goes against a
couple of narratives I would expect from
you. You said you have 42 pills a day.
Roundabout.
This is someone that doesn't want to
mess with their equilibrium. It's having
42 different pills a day.
Well, no. Yeah, but it's it's not
Okay. No, I'm joking.
No, no. It's like um I someone going to
put it online because so many people ask
like so I um first of all I think
everything we take we eat is an active
decision. So I like so if you remember
like before the the the
the podcast
the podcast I was looking at it because
I wanted to know what is in it like and
there is seems to be a lot of good stuff
in it. Yeah. I think that might be one
of the greatest endorsements ever. the
fact that somebody who cares that much
about their health that they won't touch
anything bad looked at what was inside
Hu looked at the the vitamins, the the
level of protein, the carbs, and all of
the amazing things it has in it. Someone
like Christian who is a billionaire and
decided that it was good enough for him,
right? Um Christian is obsessed with his
health and uh and also I guess the other
thing is he really really enjoyed the
flavor as well. He tried two flavors. He
tried the new banana flavor, which if
you haven't tried, I highly recommend
you do. But he also tried the berry
flavor, which he actually decided to
take with him, which was my old my old
favorite flavor. My new favorite flavor
is the ready to drink banana flavor. But
um I believe, you know, someone like
Christian who cares a lot about his
health, who cares about convenience, and
who cares about consuming things that
taste good, I believe Christian is the
perfect customer for him. If you are
someone that is often skips meals or
doesn't always get the sort of
nutritionally complete diet that you
need to function properly and to extend
the length of your life and to be
healthy in your body and mind and he is
just such a good solution. So, so I
don't I'm not in a camp where people say
oh vitamins or any form of of added
stuff is bad because I'm like everything
I eat is something external going in my
body. Yeah. So and then my view on on
aging at the moment is at the moment
there is unfortunately we're working on
it hard. Yeah. But there is nothing
which really slows down aging
dramatically. Yeah. Dramatically or and
or or even reverses it. However, there
are things which give you a little bit
of an edge. Yeah. And the edge is not
big. Yeah. But unfortunately I'm not 20
anymore. If I would been 20 which uh
then I would say hey no then then the
optionality would be super easy. If I
would be 20 now and I tell that my
godchildren they don't believe it
they're 10 I'm like you're going to live
for hundreds of years. Yeah. So I'm
unfortunately fortunately because I
still have the opportunity and again my
decision was like I want to work on it
because I think I do it better than
others. Yeah. And I'd rather trust
myself than wait than others doing it.
Seriously, like we're like I like okay
but I'm I'm at the borderline like
because I need to hurry up. So So even
if I do something now at the moment
which gives me statistically two more
years that's two more years like Yeah.
in a in a race. Yeah.
Tell me what these things are.
Well I think the
I'm 20 so I'd like to
Yes. So I think there are some some easy
things to do like um the uh for example
sleep is super important. Yeah. Then um
why why sleep important
for could talk we could you should do I
told you you should do a podcast just
about sleep expon
yeah oh you had so it's perfect like
there's so many reasons but sleep is one
of the core things we don't fully
understand it yet but like who has
practically if you I don't know the
exact number but read why we sleep from
Matthew Walker like I think if if you if
you sleep 2 three hours less than you
should for some days your immune system
is collapsing If your immune system
collapsing that your probability of
cancer goes up and I mean sleep has so
many ne good sleep is so good for you
and ne too little sleep has so many
negative consequences that so sleep is
super important so I try to sleep enough
for example I try that's one of the
luxury things uh which I can do because
I work for myself that I don't have
early morning meetings so and I have
always something to do like emails
whatever but I try that I can wake up
naturally so I never wake up with an
alarm clock as unless I need to fly or
whatever. Yeah. So, um so that's one
thing. Then obviously no alcohol.
Alcohol is a is a is a is toxic like
full stop. Cigarettes. All all drugs
except of psychedelics are toxic. Yeah.
So don't do them. Yeah. Very bad for
aging. Yeah. You see that by the way
when people like Yeah. Um I don't want
to
say now that I aged well, but like if I
go to a class reunion or whatever, like
some people who drink very a lot of
alcohol and eat [__] Yeah. they look
older like it's like so so they say is
yeah food like intake you be healthy
don't carbs like sugar is super bad like
I think so so I don't want to go yes I
do 42 pills or whatever it is yeah and
meaning it's the list would be long and
maybe again maybe I put it somewhere
online but I think the message is
because if people jump from zero to 42
pills they won't do it anyway so whoever
listens now I would say if you do the
three four five things which sort of
it's these 8020 rules I'm trying to
carve out the
20% but go for the sort of the easy hard
and easy first. Sleep, healthy food,
exercise is super important. Must not be
super hard exercise, but like every day
like 20, 30 minutes of mild to medium
exercise, as I said, no drugs, no
alcohol, whatever. Um, these are the
main ones. You're going to be
significantly healthier. And
I heard you talk about intermittent
fasting.
Yes. Oh, sorry. Intermittent fasting is
one. Yes. So I try not to eat for 16 18
hours a day every day. And once you
start doing it, you you sort of you
why why do you do that? Why do you
intermittently fast? I've always been
curious about it. I've never done it.
Uh because it's very healthy. I mean
there are a lot of health benefits. Your
your blood sugar level sort of
normalizes which has then sort of a lot
of um follow on effects. Yeah. It's also
you lose weight. It's a very simple like
Yeah. Um
I um I actually only have one other
thing that I wanted to ask you about. I
mean I I don't I have a million things,
but in the interest of time, it was
about Bitcoin.
Yep.
You you've you've been a big investor in
Bitcoin and the future of Bitcoin,
you're bullish.
Super bullish. Because what I think is
like
all politicians from left and right from
from any part of the spectrum. And by
the way, I think about it a lot. I think
maybe it's not even a stupid decision
what they took but like all politicians
decided that money printing is the thing
to go. Yeah. So we're going to see these
massive devaluation of fiat money and
never before again I really love history
and normally this happened to one
currency or one country or whatever at
the moment it happens it's it's
happening to all the major currencies in
the world euro
[Music]
remn like US dollar everything is sort
of devaluated at the same time so and
because everything is relative to each
other obviously by the way it's not just
bitcoin but assets go up this is why I'm
on a 10 year horizon. I'm extremely
bullish on in general quality assets,
stocks, bitcoin, anything which is not
cash. I think the most dangerous asset
class for 10 years is cash. Doesn't mean
by the way there can't be stock market
crash whatever in between where you want
to have cash to buy. Yeah. So you should
have like how you say in English
tactically cash but not like
strategically cash. Yeah. Um so but
Bitcoin and so and Bitcoin is one of
these assets first and then second the
world always needs a store of value.
So for thousands of years gold is was
the store of value of choice. Meaning
you think about it how many currencies
were there and many
thousands because by the way always
politicians mess it up. Always like pe
politicians can't be entrusted with
currencies. Full stop. It's always a bad
idea. Yeah. Always 100%. And so people
always had gold. Yeah. So, but gold is
is also people then say, "Oh, Bitcoin
has no value." Gold has no value. You
can't eat it. It's actually one of these
things like you can't eat it. It's maybe
nice to look at, but like it's just a
convention. It's just an agreement
humanity has. And I would go further.
It's embedded in our cultural system.
There are so many fairy tales and things
about gold. But if you ask a
10-year-old, for him it's Bitcoin.
Bitcoin is his pop culture store of
value and that's exactly gold. So and I
think that shift has happened or is
about to happen that Bitcoin is at least
additionally to gold and someone will
completely make gold redundant. Yeah. Is
the new store of value and it's just you
can argue now what's the value of
Bitcoin because it's it's a it's a
convention. It's a deal society made
that we accept that that's the value.
Yeah. There's no nothing more meaning
you can add than say oh maybe bitcoin is
disrupting the financial but it's all
secondary. The main thing is, is it a
store of value or not? And for me, it is
a store of value. Yeah, that's sort of
the main driver of uh Bitcoin is the new
gold. That's enough, by the way, to make
it still go up dramatically compared to
gold.
We could talk about this forever, but um
my last question, and this is definitely
my last question, is as you think
forward, you know, in your future, you
you said at the start of this podcast
about visualizing every morning, you
visualize and you think about the things
that you want your future to hold. I
know if I said to you like what's the
end? There is no end. I get that because
I understand you're thinking this is a
continuous pursuit of your own hobbies
and interests.
But when you visualize what you want
Christian's future to look like, say in,
you know, a couple of decades from now,
what are the like the principles of that
future? What are the characteristics of
it?
I still want to look like today.
You want to look super sexy and young.
You want to look 20 years old.
We're going to make that.
Yeah, we can do that on Photoshop.
No, not on Photoshop. We're going to
make that in real life because I value
human connection. Photoshop doesn't work
because you want to be cyborgs anyway.
So in virtual world so
well I think we're going to be cyborgs.
I think we're going to that's one of the
drivers which I think is still human.
We're going to merge with technology. We
already are meaning what is it called
like what you put on your heart like um
a stent or like whatever. Yeah. Yeah. Is
already like a cyborg. It's just very
early. Exactly. It's very So
but that's the whole point. I there is
no end game because that would be kind
of sad. It's this what it's the same
like with work life balance to say if I
would just work because then you're back
at these famous sort of what was it a
novel from whom was it like that or
these old tale where the fisher is on
the the guy is on the beach and meets
the guy the story
yeah you know which one I mean like
where then it comes out oh he works his
ass off just to lie on the beach and
then the poor guy is saying why you
could lie on the beach now yeah that's
the whole point it's about the journey
it's not about an end point so I don't
have an end point and I never had I just
like try to keep my again it's all about
keeping my life exciting because if it
wouldn't then I would want to die. So
keep my life cool. And this, by the way,
this can change when maybe in 40 years.
It's not I'm not a robot. Like this is
not gonna I'm not gonna be I'm I'm
maturing like or maturing like I'm I'm
changing in a positive way. Like uh
maybe in 40 years I decide that I don't
think so, but I don't know like and it's
like the good thing is that I'm open for
I want to be already maybe in 40 years.
I look I had now everything I had on a
in- entrepreneurship. Maybe I want to
you you feel yourself changing and
maturing in your
Yeah, but maturing is I want you don't
yet changing but in a in a good way that
again I'm trying to continuously analyze
what now we're back at the word soul or
whatever you would call it your inner
voice is telling you what is good for me
now and it might be that this is
changing over time so for example I
decided decided is the wrong word like I
feel that it's getting time somewhere
and not urgently to getting children
like if you would have asked me 20 years
ago I would have said no I don't want
children like yeah so but it's like open
being open for that and maybe in 40
years I'm just making it up now as an
example not that I feel like maybe I say
look I want to be a singer now god
beware and the world is like no no no
because I but like maybe I have some new
ideas which really like are different
what I'm doing now but like it's
important to stay open for that inner
voice because it might change and just
because again so far continuously. I
love doing what I do and exploring that.
But like
you know what I mean? Like
I can get you.
Yeah. So don't put an end point. There
is not this one thing because that would
be sad. Like if
most depressive day ever, isn't it?
Exactly. Like
the day you lose all meaning sooner.
Yeah.
Well, listen, thank you so much for for
agreeing to do this. You are honestly
the one of the most fascinating people I
I've I've ever met. And I I'm not just
saying
I want to win an Oscar by the way.
I'm sure you do.
No, no. There was one I want to be doing
something creative like I I
something artistic.
Artistic. Yeah. So
I've I've gone through the same thing
since leaving social chain. I was like
I'm going to DJ. I'm I've done a big
That by the way I thought was very cool
when you told me that. I was like that's
a cool thing.
I've got I've directed a theatrical show
with the the associate director of
Hamilton. It's it's theater. It's called
the Dire of Sea Live. It's the
theatrical version of my life. There's a
50 person choir sold out already. And I
said to myself that I didn't want to be
a label. So I don't want to be a social
media CEO. I'm a guy that has a bunch of
a perspective. And that perspective can
be applied to art, my book, which I
wrote myself, the show, creating music.
I've got my first DJ performance at a
festival this year. And I just thought
what what if you detached yourself from
your labels? What kind of person would
you become? You'd become artistic. You'd
become healthcentric. You'd start
businesses. You know,
for example, I always think I should
write the script because I can't act
when I could like when I'm not good in
it. Also, you should be always
self-aware what it's not worth pursuing.
But like I always maybe you should write
a script. I was like because I love
movies. I produce movies. So so I so I
was like maybe I should again but again
it's always listening to yourself what
your soul inner voiceever you want to
call it.
Not society.
Exactly. And not outside world is
telling you.
You are the probably the most
interesting person I know in in a really
compelling way. Sometimes I know people
and they're like successful and they
think, "Oh god, I hate to be that
person." But you are in like a really
compelling unique way because of your
work you do, but because of your
philosophy for life, because of this
sort of this I guess like almost I don't
know what the hell they they refer to
it, but this like how your how your
scientific view can can merge with a
spiritual one and a religious one, I
find super fascinating. I think it's
those sort of intersections that create
really interesting ideas. Um, you're
also the most hardworking person I know.
Um, but you're also a really nice guy.
Oh, thank you.
You know, really like nice guy behind
the scenes as well. And so, thank you
for coming on the podcast. I think, you
know, I think your future is going to be
staggering. I talk about you all the
time to my team, all the time. I'm like,
you know, because you are very very
compelling in a number of really
positive ways. Uh I think I think uh the
work you're doing with AAI, Compass, and
all of your other companies are
staggering. And I think you're actually
going to be one of the most important
entrepreneurs, creators of our time. I
think the world is And I was like a very
bad
like I genuinely was like I know
Christian coming on my podcast now. I
know in 10 years time this is probably
going to be one of my most viewed
podcasts ever because of the trajectory
you're on and the way you think. It's my
my prediction. I'm very rarely wrong.
But thank you don't have to be like oh
you're so right
don't know what to say and then we mean
it. I do mean it. Um and it's been a
privilege to work with you over the last
couple of months and understand that
because it's been inspiring for me.
Um thank you for doing this today. I
hope you've enjoyed it.
Yeah I did. I did very much.
Amazing. Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks. Cool.
People ask me for book recommendations
all the time and I finally got one for
you. It's a book called Happy Sexy
Millionaire which is authored by me. Um
I spent the last almost 2 years in
jungles around the world in Costa Rica
and Indonesia in solitude writing this
book. It's the there's this crazy thing
when you write a book because you you
spend so much time pouring your heart
and soul into it and everything you know
and all of the revelations you've had in
your life and then there's this barrier
which is that people have to buy the
thing in order for them to get that
thing that means so much to you. I wish
that wasn't the case. It's just the way
the industry is and in order to get that
distribution and to get it on shelves,
you need a publisher. So please, please,
please, if you can, if you've ever liked
anything I've ever ever produced, this
podcast, my Instagrams, anything I've
ever said, read this book. There was no
ghost writer. I wrote every single word
myself. There's some real surprises in
there. It's an honest, sometimes
hilarious, incredibly vulnerable,
hopefully valuable recount of my life,
my journey, everything I've learned
across across the way. And really the
answer to being fulfilled, to being
happy, and to achieving success. It is
the most important important thing I've
ever created. So, I implore you to go to
Amazon now or wherever you get your
books and get that pre-order. If you get
that pre-order, I'm going to put you
into a group with everybody that's
pre-ordered it, and I'm going to send
you some exclusive stuff. So, the first
things I'm going to do is a series of
voice notes, which I think are um are
going to be pretty powerful. I'm going
to give you access to some tickets,
which nobody else will have, and I'm
going to do everything I can to thank
you for for for giving me that sort of 9
quid of your money or what whatever it
is. Happy sexy millionaire. You can
pre-order it everywhere now. And if you
do get that pre-order, please do DM me
because I'd love to thank you myself.